# pv_forecast
Here, a forecast for the energy production of a photovoltaic system is 
created.   
Therefore, the data is transferred from the Fronius Solar API of the inverter 
to a PostgreSQL database on a Raspberry Pi.  
Before that I also look on the data provided by the Fronius Solarweb reports 
and data generated by the USB port from the inverter.   
To create features weather data is added from openweathermap.org.  
Hardware which was used is a Fronius Primo 5.0-1 inverter, and the Raspberry Pi 
2 Model B.

## data
- pv.csv: Data with 30 minutes resolution from Fronius Primo 5.0-1 inverter USB 
  port.
- pv_day.csv: Daily data from fronius solarweb reports.

## pi
- fronius_to_db.py: Gets data from inverter and saves it in a PostgreSQL 
  database on the Raspberry Pi.
- owm_to_db.py:
  - Requests weather forecasts from OWM API and saves it in PostgreSQL database 
    on Raspberry Pi.
  - Updates cronjob to run fronius_to_db.py only while the sun is shining.

## scripts
### jupyter  
- 30min_initial.ipynb: Initial analysis and an explanation for the columns of 
  USB data.
- 30min_further.ipynb: Further analysis of USB data.
- daily.ipynb: First look on daily data from Fronius Solarweb.
- energy_minute.ipynb: Visualization of data from API which is saved every 
  minute.
- fronius_solar_api.ipynb: Exploration of Fronius Solar API.
- owm_api.ipynb: Exploration of OWM API.
- results.ipynb: Creates error measures and plots to compare predictions.
- sun_rise_set.ipynb: Exploration of sunrise-sunset.org API.
- weather.ipynb: Visualization of in database saved weather data.

### sql
- pv.sql creates a view without text columns and missing data.
- pv_org.sql creates a database and uploads the USB data.
- ws.sql creates a time series with 30 minutes frequency based on the energy 
  ('energy_positiv_ws').
- results.sql creates a table for saving forecasts. The table is initialized 
  with forecast based on different means.
